- [Instructor] In our last lesson,
we were able to use the functional style
to build out a pipeline using our collection,
a stream and some operations.
Now, it's definitely not as concise as we would like,
and that's because we haven't used a lambda expression yet.
Let's talk about that.
You'll recall that a lambda is a function
that only has parameters, an arrow and a body.
Anything else, like a method name
or a return type is unnecessary.
So let's go ahead and convert these functional interfaces
over to lambdas.
To do that, we can remove everything to the left side
of the parameter going into the method
on the functional interface.
Okay, the next thing we need is an arrow,
and I'm just going to overwrite some
of this syntax that was left from the previous code.
Okay, so now we got our arrow,
I'm going to remove this debugging as well.
It's really not necessary.
And then I'm going to remove everything on the right side
of the method body.
Okay, watch what happens.
Now, all we're left with is the return statement.
And that's not necessary for a lambda
that doesn't have multiple lines.
We can just remove the return statement,
and now we get this nice concise lambda expression.
Look what that did for our code.
Okay, let's do the same thing for the forEach method
by switching out the functional interface consumer
with a lambda function.
You'll recall we're going to get rid
of everything to the left of the parameter.
Then we're going to replace the syntax with an arrow.
Then we're able to remove everything to the right
of the method body.
Then let's just tidy this up,
and look what that does for us.
I told you it was concise, and it gets even better.
We can replace our lambda with a method reference.
A method reference allows us
to pass a method into a function.
So here I can use the Room type,
and then specify that we'd like
to invoke the isPetFriendly method,
and that will be used as the predicate
for our filter operation.
Look at that.
Okay, let's go ahead, we'll execute it.
You can see that we got the same results as last time,
except this time, it was only three lines of code,
and it very much does say what we want to achieve.
We want to stream the elements
from our collection of rooms,
remove any rooms that are not pet friendly,
and then write then out to the console.
So we've only scratched the surface
of what operations are exposed on the stream interface
but now you should understand the pattern
of how we work with stream operations,
and lambdas to build out a pipeline.
Let's take a look at a few more operations next.